

CLASS DESCRIPTIONS:
CLASSIC HOT YOGA, BARKAN HOT YOGA and BARKAN HOT VINYASA


Classic Hot Yoga is a series of 26 yoga poses done in a heated room. The room is maintained at a temperature of 100-105 degrees and is designed for all levels. The sequence of postures, combined with the heat, strengthens and detoxifies your body, relieving neuromuscular tension. This class will strengthen your organs, glands and nervous system, while moving fresh blood through your entire body, restoring all systems to a healthier working order. This is a perfect class for beginners.

Barkan Hot Yoga, developed by Jimmy Barkan, finds its roots from a lineage in Calcutta, but also integrates postures from other styles of Yoga to create variations and even greater range of motion. The yoga classes are practiced in a heated room to stretch and strengthen various areas of the body. The practice brings vital balance and restores all systems to optimal health. Consistency will create a physical, mental and spiritual harmony that will be felt in all areas of the practitioner’s life. This is also a perfect class for beginners.

Barkan Hot Vinyasa is a beginning flow yoga class, designed to introduce the beginner to a slightly more vigorous practice. This sequence, also developed by Jimmy Barkan, includes 5 vinyasas plus postures similar to many of the ones included in the Barkan Hot Yoga Class. This fun and exciting class brings a fresh new TWIST to your hot yoga practice!

Hot Dinner and Happy Hour are one hour versions of Hot Yoga.

Hot Silent Hour is the same 26 pose sequence done in Hot Yoga, but without the instruction. The class is done in silence (with the instructor saying the name of the pose - begin - and change), allowing the students to have a more personally guided experience with their bodies, minds and their practice. The classes are teacher led, so timing in and out of postures is set. The one hour 6 AM classes are a great way to jump start your day! Traditional timing and sequencing in the 90 minute class is honored. It is recommended that students have attended at least 5 regular hot yoga classes prior to attending a silent class.

The PHYSICAL: The yoga asanas are designed to work internally and externally. Internally, improvements to the heart, spleen, kidneys, liver, and intestines are realized through consistent practice. Externally, the joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments are all made stronger through Hot Yoga and Hot Vinyasa.

The MENTAL: As in all forms of yoga, the mind is strengthened through the discipline of Hot Yoga, which helps to eliminate stress, depression, anxiety, and other dysfunctional mental disorders. Hot Yoga helps to create a calming of the mind, quieting of the brain's chatter, and deep relaxation response.

The SPIRITUAL: As we strengthen the body and calm the mind, we open ourselves up for a transformational experience. The Intention behind the Hot Yoga is to balance and body, quiet the mind and nourish the soul.
